There are two kinds of YouTubers in this
world. On one side, we have creator A
who spends six plus hours painstakingly
writing scripts word for word, obsessing
over every comma, every full stop, and
every tiny detail. They're on their
third coffee, staring at a blinking
cursor and rewriting the intro for the
10th time. And then there's creator B,
who whips up a powerful bullet point
script in 15 minutes, only writing out
the key ideas structured for maximum
impact. And his videos flow naturally
and get twice the views. Guess whose
channel is growing faster? The truth is
over scripting might be holding you back
more than you think. Today I'm going to
show you how to write a powerful bullet
point script so that you can cut your
scripting time by 75%. My name is Brian
and I've written scripts for some of the
top educational channels all across
YouTube. And my videos have gotten
millions of views and generated millions
of dollars in revenue. And before we get
into the actual system, let me take you
back to my very first video. It was
November 2023 and I was launching this
very channel that you're watching right
now. and I wanted to make sure that I
made the best video possible. So, what
did I do? I spent every single hour
obsessing over every single word to make
sure that it was perfect. And I ended up
spending two whole months just on a
10-minute script. And the result, well,
my video got 10,000 views in the first 2
weeks on a completely fresh channel,
which was a complete success. But my
recording process ended up being 10
hours long. 10 hours. because I was
looking down at my fully written script,
looking up at the camera, saying the
exact words, looking back down, looking
back up, and there were a bunch of
recording mistakes just because it was
my first time recording. The worst part
is that the script didn't feel natural
at all because I refined it over and
over and over again, like I was an
obsessive copyriter or something. Now,
I'm not going to lie to you and say that
writing full scripts don't work. They
definitely do. I do it for most of my
clients. But if you're going to spend
that much time obsessing over every
single word, that is not going to work
in the long term because you're simply
not going to post. And if you're
dyslexic at all, like, let's be honest,
most YouTubers are, you can't stand
looking at a script for more than 5
seconds at a time without your brain
feeling like it's going to explode. So,
for those of you who, for the life of
you, cannot make fully scripted videos
work, you should try out writing
bulletoint scripts. A common
misconception that I see most creators
make is that they think a fully written
out script is better than a bulletoint
script. But if you're a great natural
speaker, it's a lot more authentic for
you to go off a bunch of bullet points
because number one, you're
knowledgeable. So you'll be able to riff
on the topic for hours and hours. And
because you're more natural, you're more
authentic, your audience will perceive
you as more trustworthy rather than you
going off a fully worded script and
reading off a teleprompter. There are
three levels when it comes to scripting
your videos. Level one is where you
focus most of your energy on writing the
broad strokes of the entire script.
Meaning the outlines pay off one, pay
off two, pay off three, and then you go
off and record the video. A script like
that looks exactly like this. You can
probably write it in 5 to 10 minutes
just based off the knowledge in your
head and then you can go ahead get in
front of the camera and record it. Level
two is where you flesh out level one a
little bit more in depth. That means you
focus on the hook, writing transitions,
writing the call to action so that the
base parts of a great YouTube script are
all intact. This is the same script as
level one, but you can see it's a little
more thorough. And level three is our
traditional script, which is written out
word for word so that all you have to do
is sit down, get in front of the camera,
read it off the teleprompter, and ship
it to your editor. Level three is the
easiest to record, but often takes the
longest. This is the exact same script
as level one and level two, but fully
written out. You can see all of the
words are there. So, when I get in front
of the camera, all I have to do is focus
on my tonality, and I don't really have
to think about the words. So, you can
see level three takes the most amount of
time. So, for those of you who are lazy
as and don't have time to write
scripts that are level three, really,
the sweet spot is writing scripts that
are at level two. Because at level one,
it is way too bare bones and it's so
easy for you to yap for 5 minutes on and
on and completely lose track of your
train of thought. But if you write a
script at level two, you can get a full
script in about 10 to 15 minutes while
having all of the retention optimized
parts like the hook, transitions, and
the call to action all fully fleshed
out. So, if you want to save hours
scripting, but still have a great
YouTube video, you need to focus on
these elements when you're writing your
bullet point outline. Number one is the
hook. The hook is the non-negotiable
part of the script that you 100 100 100%
need to script out because the first 30
second to 1 minute retention will make
or break your video. If you decide to
riff off your hook, most of the time if
you're not a great great great
copywriter, it will not work out and
your video will not be a viral banger at
all. So, the easiest way to write a hook
for your bullet point script is to
follow this exact framework. So, let's
say we're scripting a video titled, "How
to actually grow a YouTube channel in
2025." The first line of the video can
be something as simple as, "This is the
only video that you'll need to learn how
to actually grow a YouTube channel." And
then the second line, you need to
introduce curiosity. That's by teasing a
story, solution, or result. So, you can
say something like, "If you want 2025 to
be the year that you make it as a
YouTuber, just like I did going from
being stuck in my 9 to5 job to now
making six figures on YouTube, I'm going
to give you the exact blueprint to win
on YouTube." And then for the third
line, you want to set the stakes,
meaning tell them exactly what they're
going to get if they watch your video.
So you can say something like in this
video I'm going to reveal my sevenst
step framework for growing any YouTube
channel. And then the last line you want
to establish uniqueness meaning telling
the viewer why you're special or why
they should watch your video. So in this
case we can either lead with authority
which is something that we've already
did or we can talk about why the content
in this video will be different. This
framework works for literally any niche
whether you're making sports content or
educational content. And then the next
line will be let's get into it. So you
can see over here if we follow this
exact framework we can write a script in
about 2 to 3 minutes. Now that we've got
the hook now we have to write the actual
meat and bones of the content which is
actually just going to be the bullet
points. So to structure this bullet
points to be retention optimized and to
keep the viewer intrigued and wanting to
continue watching. I use the why, what,
how framework. Now the most common
mistake that most people will make when
they're writing a level two script is
that they will reveal what the point is
at the very start and that is the what
of the point. So in the case of how to
actually grow a YouTube channel, if I
want to talk about thumbnails, I won't
say this next section is about
thumbnails. Instead, I will start by
building curiosity and explaining the
importance of thumbnails and the
importance of getting a click. And if I
can sell the viewer on why getting a
click is the most important part of
growing a channel, then they'll be
bought into the idea of creating a
banger title and thumbnail. So instead
of starting with the what, which is the
thumbnail, you start with the why is
something important. And that's why I
came up with the why, what, how formula.
Why being starting with why this
actually matters to your audience. What
being revealing what you discovered to
your audience and how is showing them
how to implement it in their day-to-day
life. The how is arguably the most
important segment because this is where
the viewer takes your theoretical
knowledge and turns it into real value
in their life. And if they actually
implement your advice and get results,
that's when they become a returning
viewer and viewer satisfaction
skyrockets. This structure is important
because it keeps viewers hooked while
building anticipation for the next
point. Now, you might be thinking,
Frank, this why, what, how thing is
great, but how do I string all of these
points when I finally get in front of
the camera and start talking about it?
Well, this is where most creators will
fall apart because they'll nail each
individual section, but then they'll
stumble through awkward pauses trying to
connect each section. And that's why you
need to master this next element because
without it, your bullet points will feel
amateur and choppy. And that's why you
want to create effective open loops
because when most people riff, you can
even see it in the edit. It'll be
difficult to connect disjointed points
when they're not related to each other
in the script or in actual words that
you say. But if you add effective
transitions from one point to another,
the whole script will flow seamlessly.
At this point, for people who don't
actually script out their transitions,
they'll say something like, "Okay, now
that we've talked about point A, now we
have to move on to point B." But if
you're writing a transition or open
loop, there are these five check boxes
that you have to take to make it a
killer transition that actually
maximizes retention. Number one, you
want to acknowledge a viewer's concern.
Number two, you want to create a problem
in the viewer's head that they want to
be able to solve. Number three, you want
to build anticipation for the solution.
Number four, you want to use contrast.
And number five, you want to set up
stakes. If you look at this video and
you rewinded back and saw how I
connected the why, what, how point to
now this transition point. You'll see I
take off all five check boxes. I start
with acknowledging the viewer's concern,
which is how would they actually connect
all of these bullet points. I create
anticipation by saying that's where most
creators completely fall apart. And then
I create anticipation for the solution
by creating contrast, telling them it's
exactly why they need to master this
next element. And lastly, I set up
stakes by saying because without it,
your bullet points will feel choppy or
amateur. And that's why scripting out
your transition is so important because
it makes your script all that more
golden. Plus, it doesn't even take that
much time. If you're lazy, probably
takes 1 to 2 minutes once you have the
why, what how written out to actually
write out the transition. Trust me, it
will improve your retention, plus saving
you a bunch of time in the edit. And
that's how you can write less and get
way better scripts. This video was
written in bullet points. So, comment
and let me know what you think of this
specific style of video. Also, there's
something I didn't quite tell you at the
start of this video. Of course, the
skill of writing less and getting better
scripts doesn't just come out of thin
air. It's because I've studied thousands
of YouTube scripts and I've written
thousands of hours of scripts for myself
and that's why I can kind of buy the
skill of writing bullet point scripts.
So, if you want to get my exact playbook
and all of my knowledge on YouTube
script writing so that you can take the
knowledge of writing full YouTube
scripts and turning that into bullet
point scripts that you can effectively
turn into a system, click on this video
over here where I give you everything
that you need to know about YouTube
script writing all in one video. Trust
me, you won't regret it. Thanks for
watching and I'll see you in the next